CNV-46289: Added network configuration recommendations (#84261)
openshift/openshift-docs: virt/vm_networking/virt-networking-overview.adoc

[id="secondary-network-config"]
== Configuring VM secondary network interfaces

You can connect a virtual machine to a secondary network by using OVN-Kubernetes, SR-IOV, and Linux bridge CNI plugins. You can list multiple secondary networks and interfaces in the VM specification. It is not required to specify the primary pod network in the VM specification when connecting to a secondary network interface.

xref:../../virt/vm_networking/virt-connecting-vm-to-ovn-secondary-network.adoc#virt-connecting-vm-to-ovn-secondary-network[Connecting a virtual machine to an OVN-Kubernetes secondary network]::

> You can connect a VM to an Open Virtual Network (OVN)-Kubernetes secondary network. {VirtProductName} supports the layer 2 and localnet topologies for OVN-Kubernetes. The localnet topology is the recommended way of exposing VMs to the underlying physical network, with or without VLAN encapsulation.

Reviewer: I would not expand the short in this case - it is a name of the project, not a short for the name of the project.

Reviewer 2: plus, I'd keep `layer2` without the space. It's the configuration value for the `topology` attribute. As is localnet. 

Does it make sense ?

Reviewer: Agreed

Author: @phoracek Do you mean not spell out Open Virtual Network (OVN)?

Author: The change from `layer 2` to `layer2` is a wider change affecting multiple modules. Might be easier to create a separate bug for that?

Reviewer 2: fine by me

Reviewer: @sjhala-ccs yes, I would only spell "OVN-Kubernetes" everywhere

+
--
* A layer 2 topology connects workloads by a cluster-wide logical switch. The OVN-Kubernetes Container Network Interface (CNI) plug-in uses the Geneve (Generic Network Virtualization Encapsulation) protocol to create an overlay network between nodes. You can use this overlay network to connect VMs on different nodes, without having to configure any additional physical networking infrastructure.

* A localnet topology connects the secondary network to the physical underlay. This enables both east-west cluster traffic and access to services running outside the cluster, but it requires additional configuration of the underlying Open vSwitch (OVS) system on cluster nodes.
--

// Updated the xref to the correct ID

To configure an OVN-Kubernetes secondary network and attach a VM to that network, perform the following steps:

. xref:../../virt/vm_networking/virt-connecting-vm-to-ovn-secondary-network.adoc#virt-connecting-vm-to-ovn-secondary-network[Configure an OVN-Kubernetes secondary network] by creating a network attachment definition (NAD).

> ifndef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]

Reviewer: While localnet would not work on ROSA, layer 2 topology is perfectly fine. Could we show it?

Author: Done

ifndef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
You can connect a VM to an OVN-Kubernetes secondary network. {VirtProductName} supports the `layer2` and `localnet` topologies for OVN-Kubernetes. The `localnet` topology is the recommended way of exposing VMs to the underlying physical network, with or without VLAN encapsulation.
+
--
* A `layer2` topology connects workloads by a cluster-wide logical switch. The OVN-Kubernetes CNI plug-in uses the Geneve (Generic Network Virtualization Encapsulation) protocol to create an overlay network between nodes. You can use this overlay network to connect VMs on different nodes, without having to configure any additional physical networking infrastructure.

* A `localnet` topology connects the secondary network to the physical underlay. This enables both east-west cluster traffic and access to services running outside the cluster, but it requires additional configuration of the underlying Open vSwitch (OVS) system on cluster nodes.
--
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]

ifdef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]

> You can connect a VM to an Open Virtual Network (OVN)-Kubernetes secondary network. {VirtProductName} supports the `layer2` topology for OVN-Kubernetes. 

Reviewer: Ditto about including explanation of what layer2 does

+
[NOTE]
====
You cannot directly attach to the default machine network when using Linux bridge networks.
====
+
You can create a Linux bridge network and attach a VM to the network by performing the following steps:

. xref:../../virt/vm_networking/virt-connecting-vm-to-linux-bridge.adoc#virt-creating-linux-bridge-nncp_virt-connecting-vm-to-linux-bridge[Configure a Linux bridge network device] by creating a `NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy` custom resource definition (CRD).
. xref:../../virt/vm_networking/virt-connecting-vm-to-linux-bridge.adoc#creating-linux-bridge-nad[Configure a Linux bridge network] by creating a `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` CRD.
. xref:../../virt/vm_networking/virt-connecting-vm-to-linux-bridge.adoc#configuring-vm-network-interface[Connect the VM to the Linux bridge network] by including the network details in the VM configuration.
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]

> // Hiding in ROSA/OSD as not supported

Reviewer: We can remove the mention of hotplug on SR-IOV, but the one with bridge binding can be used on ROSA together with the layer 2 OVN network.

ifndef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
xref:../../virt/vm_networking/virt-hot-plugging-network-interfaces.adoc#virt-hot-plugging-network-interfaces[Hot plugging secondary network interfaces]::

> You can add or remove secondary network interfaces without stopping your VM. {VirtProductName} supports hot plugging and hot unplugging for Linux bridge interfaces that use the VirtIO device driver.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add or remove secondary network interfaces without stopping your VM. {VirtProductName} supports hot plugging and hot unplugging secondary interfaces using the bridge binding and the VirtIO device driver. It also supports hotpluging secondary interfaces using the SR-IOV binding.
```

It is limited by the binding plugin, not the CNI itself.
